"A man either lives life as it happens to him, meets it head-on and licks it, or he turns his back on it and starts to wither away."
"Logic is the beginning of wisdom, not the end."
"I haven't faced death. I've cheated death. I've tricked my way out of death and patted myself on the back for my ingenuity; I know nothing."
"You may find that having is not so pleasing a thing as wanting. This is not logical, but it is often true."
"Live now; make now always the most precious time. Now will never come again."
"Computers make excellent and efficient servants, but I have no wish to serve under them."
"Sometimes a feeling is all we humans have to go on."
"With the first link, the chain is forged. The first speech censored, the first thought forbidden, the first freedom denied, chains us all irrevocably."
"It's not safe out here. It's wondrous, with treasures to satiate desires both subtle and gross; but it's not for the timid."
"... the prejudices people feel about each other disappear when they get to know each other."
"If we're going to be damned, let's be damned for what we really are."
"What makes one man an exceptional leader? We see indications that it's his negative side which makes him strong, that his evil side, controlled and disciplined, is vital to his strength. Your negative side removed from you, the power of command begins to elude you."
"A library serves no purpose unless someone is using it."
"When dreams become more important than reality, you give up travel, building, creating; you even forget how to repair the machines left behind by your ancestors. You just sit living and reliving other lives left behind in the thought records."
"Insufficient facts always invite danger."
"Perhaps man wasn't meant for paradise. Maybe he was meant to claw, to scratch all the way."
"Madness has no purpose. Or reason. But it may have a goal."
"Insults are effective only where emotion is present."
"They used to say that if Man was meant to fly, he'd have wings. But he did fly. He discovered he had to."
"Humans do have an amazing capacity for believing what they choose -- and excluding that which is painful."
"When a child is taught, it's programmed with simple instructions, and at some point, if its mind develops properly, it exceeds the sum of what it was taught, thinks independently."
"Leave bigotry in your quarters; there's no room for it on the bridge."
"Genius doesn't work on an assembly line basis. Did Einstein, Kazanga or Sitar of Vulcan produce new and revolutionary theories on a regular schedule? You can't simply say, 'Today I will be brilliant.'"
"In critical moments, men sometimes see exactly what they wish to see."
"Compassion: that's the one things no machine ever had. Maybe it's the one thing that keeps men ahead of them."
"Change is the essential process of all existence."
"The intellect is not all... but its cultivation must come first, or the individual makes errors... wastes time in unprofitable pursuits."
"Without followers, evil cannot spread."
"Our species can only survive if we have obstacles to overcome. You remove those obstacles. Without them to strengthen us, we will weaken and die."
"Curious, how often you humans manage to obtain that which you do not want."
"One man cannot summon the future. But one man can change the present! "
"We're a most promising species, Mr. Spock, as predators go. Did you know that? I frequently have my doubts. I don't. Not any more. And maybe in a thousand years or so, we'll be able to prove it."
"I speak of rights! A machine has none; a man must. If you do not grant him that right, you have brought us down to the level of the machine; indeed, you have elevated that machine above us! "
"A lie is a very poor way to say hello."
"To all mankind -- may we never find space so vast, planets so cold, heart and mind so empty that we cannot fill them with love and warmth."
"Human beings do not survive on bread alone ... but on the nourishments of liberty. For what indeed is a man without freedom ... naught but a mechanism, trapped in the cogwheels of eternity."
"We prefer to help ourselves. We make mistakes, but we're human -- and maybe that's the word that best explains us."
"It's time you learned that freedom is never a gift. It has to be earned."
"To be human is to be complex. You can't avoid a little ugliness -- from within -- and from without."
"Improve a mechanical device and you may double productivity. But improve man, you gain a thousandfold."
"It's hard to believe that something which is neither seen nor felt can do so much harm." "That's true. But an idea can't be seen or felt."
"You know the greatest danger facing us is ourselves, and irrational fear of the unknown. There is no such thing as the unknown. Only things temporarily hidden, temporarily not understood."
"Your will to survive, your love of life, your passion to know ... Everything that is truest and best in all species of beings has been revealed to you. Those are the qualities that make a civilization worthy to survive."
"A species that enslaves other beings is hardly superior -- mentally or otherwise."
"When the personality of a human is involved, exact predictions are hazardous."
"Instruments register only through things they're designed to register. Space still contains infinite unknowns."
"Look at these three words written larger than all the rest, and with special pride never written before or since -- tall words, proudly saying "We the people" ... these words and the words that follow ... must apply to everyone or they mean nothing."
"Without freedom of choice there is no creativity."
"I object to intellect without discipline; I object to power without constructive purpose."
"Now, I don't pretend to tell you how to find happiness and love, when every day is a struggle to survive. But I do insist that you do survive, because the days and the years ahead are worth living for! "